
# Sharma_Nikunj_WerkStudent_Python

## Overview

The pdf_extractor.py to extract dates and values from the given 2 PDF invoices and store output in a CSV and an Excel file. Also, it includes a pivot table in the excel sheet that is also generated by this script. The script is designed to automatically installs any missing dependencies using a requirements.txt file located in the same folder. The exe file made from  pdf_extractor.py could not be uploaded owing to its large size. To solve this runner.py script was made to run pdf_extractor.py, and .exe file of runner.py has been uploaded.

## Task Details

1. **Requirnments**:
      - pandas for data manipulation
      - PyPDF2 for pdf reading
      - openpyxl for processing files in excel
    
    Note: All these are libraries are designed to be auto installable using requirements.txt file.

2. **Code Process**:
    - 2.1 Installation of Missing Libraries
        - install_missing_packages() function automatically install missing libraries listed in requirements.txt, if one doesn't have them already installed.

    - 2.2 PDF Data Extraction
        - extract_date_and_value() function takes pdf file's location as input and extracts date and billing amount from the files. To get these values it searches the pdf text against the given condition and come with the said details. 

     - 2.3 Data storage
         - process_pdfs() function stores data extracted in the last step into csv and excel files. It is also responsible for creation of the pivot table and its formatting.

      - 2.4 runner.py 
         - runner.py file is made to fix issue of large .exe file. It is script that intiates pdf_extractor.py.
           
      - 2.5 runner.exe file
         - auto-py-to-exe has been used to create the .exe file for the project.
           
      
**Note**: For further question feel free to reachout at nikunjsharma6400@gmail.com

